README.md, before:

[English](./README.md) | [Español](./README.es.md) | [Português](./README.pt.md)

# Today I Learned

Digital garden documenting daily learnings and technical explorations.

<!-- CTAs -->
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/LuisSambrano/today-i-learned/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/LuisSambrano/today-i-learned?style=flat-square" alt="Stars"/></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/LuisSambrano/today-i-learned/network/members"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/forks/LuisSambrano/today-i-learned?style=flat-square" alt="Forks"/></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/LuisSambrano/today-i-learned/issues"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/LuisSambrano/today-i-learned?style=flat-square" alt="Issues"/></a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/contributions-welcome-brightgreen?style=flat-square" alt="Contributions Welcome"/>
</p>

## Overview

This repository serves as a personal knowledge base where I document technical concepts, tools, and insights encountered during software development. Each entry represents a discrete learning moment, organized by topic and date.

The format follows the "Today I Learned" (TIL) pattern popularized in the developer community, where short, focused notes capture specific knowledge rather than comprehensive tutorials. This approach creates a searchable reference library that grows organically over time.

Entries cover a wide range of topics including programming languages, frameworks, system design, development tools, and best practices. The repository functions as both a personal reference and a public resource for others learning similar technologies.

## Structure

```
til/
├── README.md                  # This file
├── javascript/               # JavaScript and TypeScript
│   ├── async-patterns.md
│   └── type-gymnastics.md
├── react/                    # React and Next.js
│   ├── server-components.md
│   └── performance-tips.md
├── databases/                # SQL, PostgreSQL, Supabase
│   ├── query-optimization.md
│   └── rls-patterns.md
├── tools/                    # Development tools
│   ├── git-workflows.md
│   └── vscode-tips.md
└── architecture/             # System design
    ├── microservices.md
    └── caching-strategies.md
```

## Format

Each entry follows a consistent structure:

```markdown
# [Topic Title]

**Date**: YYYY-MM-DD  
**Category**: [Category Name]

## What I Learned

[Brief explanation of the concept or technique]

## Example

\`\`\`[language]
// Code example demonstrating the concept
\`\`\`

## Why It Matters

[Practical application or benefit]

## References

- [Link to documentation]
- [Link to article or tutorial]
```

## Categories

Current categories include:

- **JavaScript/TypeScript**: Language features, patterns, and best practices
- **React/Next.js**: Component patterns, hooks, performance optimization
- **Databases**: SQL queries, schema design, optimization techniques
- **Tools**: Git, VS Code, terminal utilities, development workflows
- **Architecture**: System design, patterns, scalability considerations
- **DevOps**: Deployment, CI/CD, infrastructure as code
- **Web Performance**: Optimization techniques, Core Web Vitals
- **Accessibility**: WCAG guidelines, ARIA patterns, inclusive design

## Contributing

While this is primarily a personal knowledge base, contributions are welcome:

1. **Corrections**: If you spot an error, please open an issue or pull request
2. **Additions**: Feel free to suggest related resources or alternative approaches
3. **Discussions**: Use GitHub Discussions to share your own learnings on similar topics

### Contribution Guidelines

- Keep entries focused and concise (200-500 words)
- Include working code examples when applicable
- Provide references to official documentation
- Use clear, descriptive titles
- Follow the established format

## Usage

### Browsing

Navigate through directories to find topics of interest. Each markdown file is a standalone entry that can be read independently.

### Searching

Use GitHub's search functionality to find specific topics:

```
repo:LuisSambrano/til [search term]
```

### Local Setup

Clone the repository to browse offline:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/LuisSambrano/til.git
cd til
```

Use any markdown viewer or text editor to read entries.

## Inspiration

This repository is inspired by:

- [jbranchaud/til](https://github.com/jbranchaud/til) - Original TIL format
- [thoughtbot/til](https://github.com/thoughtbot/til) - Team-based TIL
- [Digital Garden](https://joelhooks.com/digital-garden) - Personal knowledge management philosophy

## License

MIT License - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Links

- **Repository**: [github.com/LuisSambrano/til](https://github.com/LuisSambrano/til)
- **Author**: [Luis Sambrano](https://github.com/LuisSambrano)

---

**[Español](./README.es.md)** | English

Commit message:

feat: standard research structure and update trilingual READMEs

README.md, after:

[English](./README.md) | [Español](./README.es.md) | [Português](./README.pt.md)

# Today I Learned

Digital garden documenting daily learnings and technical explorations.

<!-- CTAs -->
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/LuisSambrano/today-i-learned/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/LuisSambrano/today-i-learned?style=flat-square" alt="Stars"/></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/LuisSambrano/today-i-learned/network/members"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/forks/LuisSambrano/today-i-learned?style=flat-square" alt="Forks"/></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/LuisSambrano/today-i-learned/issues"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/LuisSambrano/today-i-learned?style=flat-square" alt="Issues"/></a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/contributions-welcome-brightgreen?style=flat-square" alt="Contributions Welcome"/>
</p>

## Overview

This repository serves as a personal knowledge base where I document technical concepts, tools, and insights encountered during software development. Each entry represents a discrete learning moment, organized by topic and date.

The format follows the "Today I Learned" (TIL) pattern popularized in the developer community, where short, focused notes capture specific knowledge rather than comprehensive tutorials. This approach creates a searchable reference library that grows organically over time.

Entries cover a wide range of topics including programming languages, frameworks, system design, development tools, and best practices. The repository functions as both a personal reference and a public resource for others learning similar technologies.

## Structure

```
til/
├── README.md                  # This file
├── javascript/               # JavaScript and TypeScript
│   ├── async-patterns.md
│   └── type-gymnastics.md
├── react/                    # React and Next.js
│   ├── server-components.md
│   └── performance-tips.md
├── databases/                # SQL, PostgreSQL, Supabase
│   ├── query-optimization.md
│   └── rls-patterns.md
├── tools/                    # Development tools
│   ├── git-workflows.md
│   └── vscode-tips.md
└── architecture/             # System design
    ├── microservices.md
    └── caching-strategies.md
```

## Format

Each entry follows a consistent structure:

```markdown
# [Topic Title]

**Date**: YYYY-MM-DD  
**Category**: [Category Name]

## What I Learned

[Brief explanation of the concept or technique]

## Example

\`\`\`[language]
// Code example demonstrating the concept
\`\`\`

## Why It Matters

[Practical application or benefit]

## References

- [Link to documentation]
- [Link to article or tutorial]
```

## Categories

Current categories include:

- **JavaScript/TypeScript**: Language features, patterns, and best practices
- **React/Next.js**: Component patterns, hooks, performance optimization
- **Databases**: SQL queries, schema design, optimization techniques
- **Tools**: Git, VS Code, terminal utilities, development workflows
- **Architecture**: System design, patterns, scalability considerations
- **DevOps**: Deployment, CI/CD, infrastructure as code
- **Web Performance**: Optimization techniques, Core Web Vitals
- **Accessibility**: WCAG guidelines, ARIA patterns, inclusive design

## Contributing

While this is primarily a personal knowledge base, contributions are welcome:

1. **Corrections**: If you spot an error, please open an issue or pull request
2. **Additions**: Feel free to suggest related resources or alternative approaches
3. **Discussions**: Use GitHub Discussions to share your own learnings on similar topics

### Contribution Guidelines

- Keep entries focused and concise (200-500 words)
- Include working code examples when applicable
- Provide references to official documentation
- Use clear, descriptive titles
- Follow the established format

## Usage

### Browsing

Navigate through directories to find topics of interest. Each markdown file is a standalone entry that can be read independently.

### Searching

Use GitHub's search functionality to find specific topics:

```
repo:LuisSambrano/til [search term]
```

### Local Setup

Clone the repository to browse offline:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/LuisSambrano/til.git
cd til
```

Use any markdown viewer or text editor to read entries.

## Inspiration

This repository is inspired by:

- [jbranchaud/til](https://github.com/jbranchaud/til) - Original TIL format
- [thoughtbot/til](https://github.com/thoughtbot/til) - Team-based TIL
- [Digital Garden](https://joelhooks.com/digital-garden) - Personal knowledge management philosophy

## License

MIT License - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## 🔬 Research & Decision Log

This digital garden is cultivated using the **Research-First** methodology.

| Document                                      | Purpose                                     |
| --------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| [KEY_FINDINGS.md](./research/KEY_FINDINGS.md) | PKM Strategy (Atomic Notes, Digital Garden) |
| [prompts/](./research/prompts/)               | Meta-learning research logs                 |

> 💡 **For AIs**: Read `KEY_FINDINGS.md` to understand the taxonomy of this knowledge base.

## Links

- **Repository**: [github.com/LuisSambrano/til](https://github.com/LuisSambrano/til)
- **Author**: [Luis Sambrano](https://github.com/LuisSambrano)

---

**[Español](./README.es.md)** | English
